Add kargo skills to onboard new components and documentation (#463)
redhat-appstudio/infra-common-deployments: .claude/skills/kargo-onboard/SKILL.md

---
name: kargo-onboard

> description: Scaffold a new component into the kargo-infra-common Kargo promotion pipeline

Reviewer: It's better to write when to use a skill rather than describe what it does. This is complimentary to the way the skill is pointed to in AGENTS.md

```suggestion
description: Use when onboarding a new component to Kargo automated promotion in kargo-infra-common — creating warehouses, promotion tasks, and patching stage files
```

---

You are onboarding a new component to the Kargo automated promotion pipeline
in the `kargo-infra-common` project.

## Before you start

Read these files to understand the conventions and reference implementation:

1. `components/kargo/internal-production/projects/kargo-infra-common/README.md` — the onboarding guide
2. `components/kargo/internal-production/projects/kargo-infra-common/kargo/warehouse.yaml` — reference warehouse
3. `components/kargo/internal-production/projects/kargo-infra-common/kargo/promotiontasks/kargo-promote-ring-1.yaml` — reference promotion task
4. `components/kargo/internal-production/projects/kargo-infra-common/base/stage-ring-1-staging.yaml` — staging stage to patch

> 5. `components/kargo/internal-production/projects/kargo-infra-common/base/stage-ring-2-production.yaml` — production stage to patch

Reviewer: Did you ask Claude to calculate the context hit of AGENTS.md + this skill + these files in every session? Is it an acceptable hit on every session's context window for you?
If not, and only some of these files are applicable to some of the workflows Claude will work on using this skill, try to group them by workflow. So, "When promoting to stage, always read X" etc.

  ```
- Add the promotion task call in `spec.promotionTemplate.spec.steps`,
  BEFORE the `git-commit` step:
  ```yaml
  - task:
      name: <component>-promote-ring-1
    as: <component>-promote
    vars:
      - name: srcPath
        value: ./src
  ```

### 8. Production stage (if applicable)

Edit `components/kargo/internal-production/projects/kargo-infra-common/base/stage-ring-2-production.yaml`:
- Add a new freight origin entry to `spec.requestedFreight`:
  ```yaml
  - origin:
      kind: Warehouse
      name: <component>
    sources:
      stages:
        - ring-1-staging
  ```
  Note: production sources freight from the staging stage (not `direct: true`).
- Add the promotion task call in steps, BEFORE `git-commit`:
  ```yaml
  - task:
      name: <component>-promote-ring-2
    as: <component>-promote
    vars:
      - name: srcPath
        value: ./src
  ```

## Validate

After generating all files and patching stages, run:

```sh
kustomize build components/kargo/internal-production/projects/kargo-infra-common/
```

If the build fails, diagnose and fix the issue. Common problems:
- Missing kustomization.yaml in a new directory
- Incorrect resource path references

> - YAML indentation errors

Reviewer: Could these be placed under a `## Common mistakes` section instead? It's a structure Claude Code knows well when reading skill files.
Then again, what are the odds that an LLM will cause YAML indentation errors?
Maybe replace it with a `## Validate` section with a list of steps to validate the build won't fail because of something the LLM did?
